First Move Module Update 1 (#826)
aptos-labs/developer-docs: apps/nextra/pages/en/build/guides/first-move-module.mdx

---
title: "Your First Move Module"
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Your First Move Module

> The Aptos blockchain allows developers to write Turing complete smart contracts (called "modules") with the secure-by-design Move language. This means you can do all the blockchain things like sending money, but also write arbitrary code, even games. It all starts with the Move module. Once compiled and deployed with Aptos CLI, you can connect to a published move Module on Aptos like a public API via one of our [many Official SDKs](../sdks/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Aptos blockchain allows developers to write Turing complete smart contracts (called "modules") with the secure-by-design Move language. Smart contracts enable users to send money with the blockchain, but also write arbitrary code, even games!
```

Reviewer 2: I think the longer version helps explain the context the Move module is in. Just writing a contract without using the SDK to interact with it is incomplete, so I like mentioning it up front (even though it's beyond the scope of the tutorial).

Author: We'll find a middle ground for the next iteration

Author: We moved the SDK reference down and used the newer version with more professional concision

Reviewer: > used the newer version with more professional concision

"_The Aptos blockchain allows developers to write Turing complete smart contracts (called "modules") with the secure-by-design Move language. This means you can do all the blockchain things like sending money, but also write arbitrary code, even games. It all starts with the Move module. Once compiled and deployed with Aptos CLI, you can connect to a published move Module on Aptos like a public API via one of our [many Official SDKs](../sdks/)._"

This still looks the same?

Author: Should be in the newest commit https://github.com/aptos-labs/developer-docs/pull/826/commits/de70bebb81b3487f61df47a8a288d58d59f33aa9

Reviewer: Mmm i don't think its in the commit https://github.com/aptos-labs/developer-docs/commit/de70bebb81b3487f61df47a8a288d58d59f33aa9... Unless I'm doing something wrong, it also looks the same in file view...

![Screenshot 2025-02-25 at 3 59 07 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c5f53164-812a-4456-874a-5fb9c4108b8f)

Author: Thank you for your eagle eye and staying with this Andrew, it should now be good to go!

This tutorial will help you understand Move Modules by guiding you through setting up a minimal Aptos environment, then how to compile, test, publish and interact with Move modules on the Aptos Blockchain. You will learn how to:

1. Setup your environment, install the CLI
2. Create a devnet account and fund it
3. Compile and test a Move module
4. Publish (or "deploy") a Move module to the Aptos blockchain
5. Interact with the module
6. Keep building with Aptos (next steps)

<Callout type="info">

> This tutorial is not meant to teach you the fundamentals of Move. That is a longer topic best learned through the [Move Book](../smart-contracts/book). If you need more analogies to familiar concepts like OOP, Solidity, or driving, check out the Developers Journey blog.

Author: Thanks for flagging that, we solved by completely removing that sentence

> This tutorial is not meant to teach you the fundamentals of Move. That is a longer topic best learned through the [Move Book](../smart-contracts/book.mdx). If you need more analogies to familiar concepts like OOP, Solidity, or driving, check out the Developers Journey blog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial is not meant to teach you the fundamentals of Move. That is a longer topic best learned through the [Move Book](../smart-contracts/book). If you need more analogies to familiar concepts like OOP, Solidity, or driving, check out the Developers Journey blog.
```

</Callout>

---

## 1. Setup

> All transactions on Aptos require an account paying the decentralized network fee ("gas") to write information to the blockchain (our goal, publishing Your First Move Module, is therefore a transaction too!). In order to compile, test and deploy Move contracts, we need to have the Aptos CLI and create an account.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this level of detail is necessary here.

Author: Agreed, we have this in next draft

Author: We shortened this in the newest commit

<Steps>
### Install the Aptos CLI

> Ensure you have [installed the Aptos CLI](../cli.mdx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure you have [installed the Aptos CLI](../cli).
```

### Open a new terminal

Open a new terminal window or tab.

### Verify the installation

Run `aptos --version` to verify you have it installed.

```bash filename="Terminal"

> > aptos --version

Reviewer: I think it's probably best to separate the actual command from the output you expect, or just don't provide the output because it often can change (like a new release might have `aptos 4.6.2`, not 4.6.1. Also just having the command makes it easier to one-click copy the command and paste it into the terminal, rather than dragging and selecting a portion of the text

Author: Good catch this also aligns with our previous user interviews, we have this fix in our upcoming draft

<Callout type="info">
As we are configuring your Aptos CLI for this folder, notice that this setup follows the logic of the blockchain itself:

1. Which network are we working with (default `devnet`, which refreshes every week)?
2. What is the account we are transacting from (creating a unique private key, which in turn generates a cryptographic public key and account address)?
3. How do I pay for "gas"? (For devnet, testnet, and local networks, the Aptos CLI will helpfully fund this account with Aptos Coin, APT).

For now, just press 'enter' repeatedly to accept all the defaults.
</Callout>

You should see a success message like this:

```bash filename="Terminal"
---
Aptos CLI is now set up for account 0x9ec1cfa30b885a5c9d595f32f3381ec16d208734913b587be9e210f60be9f9ba as profile default!
{
  "Result": "Success"
}
```

<Callout type="info">
What you might not have noticed is that the Aptos CLI has created a new hidden folder `.aptos/` with a `.gitignore` and `config.yaml` which contains the account information, including private key, public key, and account address.

You can view hidden files with `ls -a` in Unix/Mac terminal or `dir /ah` in Windows.
</Callout>
</Steps>

> ---

Author: Thanks for catching this separators issue, I think you suggestion looks better. We were just following the convention in the existing version https://aptos.dev/en/build/guides/first-move-module and other guides. As we make other updates to this and other guides, will keep in mind this cleaner format 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/138bae5e-bb14-4c43-b6ba-3bf4d4d8d437)
